Road mishaps are a constant concern for public safety, particularly in developing countries. Hence, there is a dire need to potentially transform the landscape of road safety for a safer India on roads. As the name suggests, hackathon revolves around road safety and aims to build solutions that can save lives. Participants are free to choose the ideas which impact road safety however they must fall in at least one of the below-mentioned categories:

Safer Road Infrastructure: Under this theme, participants are required to brainstorm and develop solutions to tackling issues in road network infrastructure. Possible innovations (but not limited to) could be mechanisms to efficiently and effectively identify defects in road infrastructure, conduct a road safety audit, identify accident-prone areas, potholes and map them which can help authorities to come up with recommendations.
Enforcement: Under this theme, participants are required to brainstorm and develop solutions to aid the officials in stricter enforcement of road traffic rules. Possible innovations (but not limited to) could be devices, cameras, applications that cater to the most common traffic violations.
Safer Vehicles: Under this theme, participants are required to brainstorm and develop solutions to reduce the crash occurrence frequency and reduce the impact of the crash in case a crash happens. Possible innovations (but not limited to) could be a vehicle fitness check device, fatigue analyzer, mechanism to ban underage driving, etc.
Emergency Connect: Working on a web/tool that can improve the post-accident emergency space in India. From working on making, it easy for the victims to claim financial support to the process of getting an ambulance on time- there is a lot of gaps in the space that can be worked upon by using technology to improve the same.
Behavioral Aspect: Under this theme, participants are required to brainstorm and develop solutions to improve driver skills and build applications and/or simplistic integrable devices that can make driving much easier and more efficient. The aim should be to target both domestic as well as commercial drivers. Such improved techniques and assistive technologies can prove to be very beneficial in bringing down the number of accidents.